{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1038\cocoasubrtf320
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww9000\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \
We have a set of databases. The individuals databases are represented as instances of this class. We define a hasEntry relationship to state that all database have a database entry.\
\
We create a class for taxonomy, we represent the ncbi taxon id for human and mouse as instances of this class. \
\
All database entries has a symbol, we use the bio2rdf symbol property to assert that all database entries have some symbol. Or, we take the symbol out and use annotations. Could keep annotation in a separate file actually. \
 \
Put the mappings in an external file that imports the kupkb.owl\
\
Stats - Human genes in entrez gene ~45,000\
Mouse 63,000. \
\
HMDB. Entry represents a metabolite.\
\
Experiment modelling:\
\
Class: BiologicalExperiment:\
hasCondition some ExperimentalCondition\
produces some Data\
hasEntry only DatabaseEntryId\
hasExperimentType only ExperimentalAssay\
\
Comment: This class captures all the individual experiments in the KUP KB. These can point to a database identifier for the experiment. Each experiment produces a set of Data objects. The experiment can also be typed to predefined set of experiments.\
\
Class: ExperimentAssayType\
This captures the different types of experiments in the KUPKB. e.g. we have an instance called AgilentTwoColorGeneExpression, that is a member of TranscriptionArrayAssay. \
\
An experiment may produce a data item that is a gene expression list. An instance of this class represent a list of genes from a particular type of analysis. These lists are generated by some DataAnalysis. \
\
e.g. we have a gene list generated in a mRNA study of mouse kidney for a model of obstructive nephropathy in mice. \
This list is generated by some analysis method. The analysis method itself can point to the workflow that did the analysis. It also has a \
}